# ietf-wg-mimi (IETF Working Group of More Instant Messaging Interoperability)

## Description 

Over time, messaging applications have achieved widespread use. Their feature sets have broadened to include plain text and rich text messaging, delivery notifications, read receipts, replies, reactions, and more. Almost all messaging applications provide a way to share files/audio/videos, and many support calling and/or conferencing features (often using WebRTC). Many modern messaging services are end-to-end encrypted, either by default or always. Some messaging vendors are implementing MLS [I-D.ietf-mls-protocol], which supports group key establishment, authentication, and confidentiality services for messaging.

The lack of interoperability between these services continues to create a suboptimal user experience. The goal of the MIMI BOF is to determine the IETF community's interest in chartering a working group to address this failure of interoperability. The IETF had multiple prior lines of effort in this area during the development and widespread deployment of XMPP and SIP decades ago, but the nature of existing messaging implementations and the external environment have both changed significantly since then. Messaging applications now share more common content features and functionality, the MLS protocol has been developed to facilitate E2EE interoperable messaging, and regulatory pressure to interoperate has increased significantly (e.g., as a result of the EU Digital Markets Act).

In theory, messaging application interoperability could be achieved entirely through the publication of vendor-specific APIs and without standardization. However, this would perpetuate suboptimal outcomes for both users and app developers, as supporting the matrix of pairwise communication flows between applications via vendor-specific APIs would create a patchwork of inconsistent user experiences and likely lead to buggy implementations. The theory behind MIMI is that using a minimal standardized framework to enable cross-app commmunications will provide more consistency while leaving app developers freedom to continue to make their own design choices. 
